APPENDIX 163

twelfth, 2 and 6. Of Zeus (Jupiter), 12 years, twelfth 1. Of Ares (Mars), 15 years, twelfth 1 and 4. Of Aphrodite (Venus), 8 years, twelfth 8 months. Of Hermes (Mercury), 20 years, twelfth 1 and 6.

<50>. How one would learn the ascensions of the zodiacal signs and the hours of the climates (klimata). In the third climate, since its greatest period is from Cancer to Sagittarius, amounting to 210 years, and its least period is from Capricorn to Gemini, 103 years—these then, if you divide by 15, which is the number of equinoctial hours, the longest day is 19 equinoctial hours, and the shortest is 10 equinoctial hours. We shall then take the sixth part of each period, both the greatest and the least: the sixth part of the greatest period of 210 is 35, and of the least, 17. What remains is 10; the third part of this is 3; this is the increment or decrement for each zodiacal sign. In the same manner you will learn also concerning the other climates.

<51>. Concerning the greatest years and completed revolutions of the seven stars. Kronos (Saturn) makes the greatest revolution in 457 years; Zeus (Jupiter) in 427 years; Ares (Mars) in 462 years; Helios (the Sun) in 1461 years; Aphrodite (Venus) in 484 years; Hermes (Mercury) in 79 years; Selene (the Moon) in 25 years. The cosmic revolution occurs in 4,632,103 years; then comes the conjunction of all the stars at the 30th degree of Cancer or the 1st degree of Leo, and fulfillment takes place; and, in the case of Cancer, a flood occurs in a part of the world.

<52>. Concerning the planets disjunct with respect to the luminaries (i.e., the Sun and Moon). If the Moon happens to be disjunct from the Sun, it signifies separation, or discord, or alienation of the parents; if the Moon is disjunct from Saturn, it brings, in part, good nativities (births), but I have found reversals and afflictions.