and to exceed, but no greater deficiency or excess than this could occur. And Abū al-Fatḥ ʿAbd al-Raḥmān al-Khāzin, who composed the accurate and reliable compilation of Sanzarēs¹, set the course of the stars up to this year. The beginning of this year is the seventh day, the twenty-eighth of Kiyak, which is the third month of the year of Nebuchadnezzar; from which the periods are reckoned up to this, the fourth year; and from Alexander the Macedonian, 940 years to this point.

The fifth year from the time of Yazdegerd, son of Shahriyār, son of Kisrā², later than the other kings; the worshippers of fire reckon the years of this one; the beginning of this year is the third day; and that day is the beginning of Farvardin; and the beginning of this year is the nineteenth of the month Kaikaki; therefore, the periods from Nebuchadnezzar up to this time, and from Alexander the Macedonian, 956 years, and from Dhu’l-Qarnayn, from the nineteenth of [the month] Khaziran, 943 years up to this point; on the twenty-second of the month Rambaul, eleven years according to the era of the Hijra, the year of Muhammad; the compiler of the recension is Kasiarī, which was made in this year, whose name is Alēs son of ʿAbd al-Karīm; the compilation of Alāʾ was set by him in this year. Ḥusāmī Salar set the recension of Isakhē in this year, and the recension of Fakhir in this year, and the recension of Athrathīn was made in this year; and the recension of Mahhī of Madrid in this year; and also the recension of Khonchanasury was set in this year; and many other recensions likewise were set in this same year. Why? Because this year is easier to calculate than the others.

[F. C.]

⁴ He meant Khoiak (Χοιακ), which is a month properly to be called the third, not the fourth: therefore the Antiochene year is written (Usener). 9 of these cod. 11 Farvardin: Persian month Farvardin. 12 Kaikaki is undoubtedly Khoiak(i) (Usener). 14 τοῦ I have omitted, but the whole sentence seems corrupt. Khazyra is perhaps the same as Eizirat, v. 34. 15 Rambaul = Arabic month Rabīʿ al-Awwal. 15 Eizirat = hijra, Hegira. 20–21 “and the … year” supplied in the margin of the manuscript.

¹ Sanzarēs is the title of the book alsangari, a set of tables which Abū al-Fatḥ ʿAbd al-Raḥmān al-Khāzin, formerly a slave of Greek origin, composed and inscribed with that title in honor of Sultan Sanjar... In the year A.H. 509, A.D. 1115, Sanjar began to reign. Gildemeister, l.c., p. 15, n. f. — Theodorus Meliteniotes, misunderstanding Sampsuchari, wrongly thought the name Sanzarēs to be that of a man.

² Yazdegerd, son of Shahriyār, son of Kisrā Parwiz—so he is called by al-Biruni (p. 35, Sachau)—became king of the Persians in 632 A.D.

³ From this passage in Sampsuchari, Theodorus Meliteniotes (Usener, l.c., p. 14), borrowing with some show of oriental learning, afforded Gildemeister the opportunity to discuss each in detail with great erudition.