VI

FLORENTINE MANUSCRIPTS

Since the title of this small work contains the names of four authors, it will suffice to explain this briefly. When I had begun to survey the manuscripts of the astrologers in order to extract from that mass what pertained to the religion of the Romans, I soon realized that this labor would be futile unless that raw and unorganized mass was first arranged, and the ancient and genuine elements were separated from the commentaries of later writers. Therefore, I undertook to draw up inventories of books of this kind. But when I shared my plan with friends, I learned that others had also conceived and attempted the same thing. Therefore, it seemed best to join forces for this laborious task, that it might be carried out more perfectly; unanimous agreement about both the whole and the particulars was easily achieved. Our intention is to complete, place by place according to their locations of preservation, a thoroughly detailed catalog of all extant Greek astrological manuscripts. The books of the Marciana Library have already been almost entirely described, and those of Munich, Vienna, Paris, and Rome have for the most part been catalogued as well, and we hope that within a few years we will be able to bring our endeavors to their conclusion. When the work is finished, copious indexes compiled from this thicket of excerpts will point the way to future researchers. Thus, at least, will the firmest foundations have been laid for constructing the corpus of the Greek astrologers, which is our aim.

The method which we have chosen to follow in compiling this catalog can already be discerned from the first book, which now appears before the public. The first part contains the fullest possible inventory of the manuscripts, in which works otherwise known are mentioned as briefly as possible, while anonymous excerpts are itemized individually, with the author's name added if it could be discovered, or that of the editor if already published, together with the first and last words transcribed. In the appendix, the principal fragments—or rather, those of which we were able to obtain exemplars—are published. For, pressed by lack of time and at a great distance from the libraries, we were not able to obtain everything that it would have been helpful to bring forth from their recesses.