…for the ruler of the house to come to her, if the ruler of the house has not departed from the sign, and if at first he is square to her but then becomes trine to her, what happens will be somewhat delayed; but if he comes from a trine to the inconjunct sign, the matter will not be accomplished, except when the ruler of the Moon returns to the same sign in which she stood at the commencement. If the Moon, being afflicted by malefics and found together with them in the same sign, while the benefics observe her from the square, release is afforded; but if she comes to the square of the benefics, she brings a favorable end to the matter. If she comes to the square of both benefics and malefics, it is said that both harm and benefit will alternate in the matter, and there is a danger that the malefics may harm while the benefics may not be able to confer complete benefit. If the Moon moves from one malefic to another, either by bodily conjunction or by aspect (testimony), matters will proceed from bad to worse. In every inception, one must consider both the Ascendant and the Moon; if the inception is nocturnal, observe the Moon above the horizon; if diurnal, observe her on or below the Ascendant.

Scholia of Leo the Philosopher on the Hermetic [work].

On account of this example and this error, Porphyry too was misled, being unskilled and far from the intellect of the great Ptolemy; for the ruler in Sagittarius does not reach the setting in 5½ days, but in 40½; for the canon of the fifth climate contains not the descensions of Sagittarius and Libra, but clearly the ascensions. If therefore, in the first position, Aries 10° is the Ascendant, and with this the ascending times are 5½, 40½; in the second position, with Sagittarius 8° setting, the Ascendant should be Gemini 8°, which has times 45½, 45½; the excess in time is not 5½ but 40½ and 5 minutes.

F. 83v. On the Division of the Twelve Places; Valens.

Since it often happens that the distance between the Ascendant and the Midheaven does not occur through four signs, but even through five and...