The Persians who worship fire reckon the year by the sun, apart from the excess of the fourth [day], from the twenty-five days; for indeed their year is made up of twenty-five days. The Egyptians reckon the year as the Persians do, and those from Adam likewise counted the years in this manner, just as these now do. The Hebrews, the Indians, and the Chaldaeans reckon the years chiefly by the sun and likewise also chiefly by the moon; but they reckon the beginning of the month from the conjunction of the sun and the moon, in such a way that it may fall either before midday or after midday, so that the sun or the moon conjoins; and they consider the beginning of their month to be the following day.

The Indians reckon the beginning of their year from when the sun comes near Aries; but if it is near the 'istēma' (station), that is, ………, from that point they reckon it. The Hebrews reckon the beginning of their year from when the sun comes near Libra. The beginning of the Chaldaean year is when the sun enters Aquarius precisely, either at the middle or at the end or at the beginning.

Since, therefore, these have reckoned the year by the sun and the months by the moon, they found that between the year of the sun and that of the moon there is a gap of ten days and an excess of five; so in seven years, there is an excess of one month. The first of these years, then, is a leap year, that is, of thirteen months; each names this month differently: the Indians call it gatmasan, the Hebrews empēr, and the Chaldaeans sun.

Since the calculation of years and days has been stated—which, however, is not the same for all tables—nevertheless this teaching ought to be the foundation of all tables; it is necessary also to mention the other methods and procedures of the science, as has been said in the arrangement of the Alāi.¹ In that arrangement of the Alāi, there are seven chapters, and the beginning of the first chapter is the teaching of the seasons as follows.

Now since the years have been determined as each has set them down, and the season of each will be spoken of, the season, then, is the foundation, and in it the years have their establishment by the distinguishing mark of the other seasons; and that foundation ought to be established from the year, as, for example, that in the year—

---
7 τοὺς omitted. 13 ἱστημὰς—I do not know what this means. 14 The manuscript is lacunose. 15 αὐτῶν: the manuscript has τούτων; cf. 29. 21 πρῶτος: read τρίτος. 24 ἔμπειρ = Hebr. ʾbbār, since μκ = b. Cf. Ideler, Chronologie, I, 532.

¹ “Alāi is not an author, but the title of a book, abbreviated from alzig al᾽ alāi, that is, 'tables' in honor of some illustrious man, Alā-al-Daula. Several such are recorded by Hagi Khalfa… Gildemeister apud Usener, Ad histor. astronomiae symbola, 1876, p. 16 i.”
---