...of those preserved from them, etc. — F. 142. On the causes of male and female animals. — On how the Sun is the cause of generation and corruption. — F. 143. On why the Sun was appointed to have the middle belt. — On how the Moon shares together with the Sun in generations and corruption. — F. 144. On the operations of the Moon. — F. 145v. On the nature of the seven planets. — F. 146v. On boundaries. — F. 147. On the lots of males and females. — F. 147v. On the lots that are bright and dark, shadowed and light ones. — F. 148v. On fortunate lots. — F. 149. On animals friendly to each other and hostile to each other, etc. — On those rising in each decan. — F. 159. On the climates pertaining in each sign. — F. 160v. On animals having many offspring, and twins, and barren ones (read: sterile). — On vocal, intermediate, and voiceless animals. — On animals signifying mange and leprosy, etc. — F. 161. On animals signifying eye diseases, etc. — On deceptive animals and those subject to afflictions and anxieties, and also dark ones. — F. 161v. On animals signifying birds, quadrupeds, fish, and reptiles. — On animals signifying trees and plants. — On watery and fiery animals, which you have, but rather about the significations of the twelve places. — F. 163. On ensouled and incorporeal animals, etc. — On the colors of animals. — On ascending and descending animals, and long and short ones. — F. 163v. On the cause of those that dwell and those that pass through. — On the disposition of the stars. — F. 164v. On configurations relative to the Sun. — F. 165v. On in what places of Mars the stars have power. — On the latitude of the stars. — On conjunctions of stars. — F. 168. On the configurations of stars. — F. 169. On the strength and weakness of stars. — F. 171v. On "empeiriskhesis" <sic>. — F. 172. On the numbers of the stars. — F. 172v. On the properties (read: properties) of the stars. — F. 173v. On Jupiter. — F. 174v. On Mars. — F. 175. On the Sun. — F. 175v. On Venus. — F. 176. On Mercury. — F. 177. On the Moon. — F. 177v. On the lots. — F. 179v. On the lots of the seven stars. — F. 180. On the lot of Saturn. — F. 180v. On the lot of Jupiter. — F. 181. of Mars | of Venus | of Mercury. — F. 181v. of the Moon. — of the twelve places. — F. 190v. On the lots not relating either to the seven planets or to the twelve places. — F. 192. On the sale of slaves. — On journeying abroad. — F. 192v. End of the effective mysteries of Apomasar.