The Sun and Zeus observe, and the Moon and Hermes also, whenever in their course they come to the place where either Aphrodite or Hermes is, and if Aphrodite, in her turn, forms a trine aspect to the place of the Moon, apart from the malefics, then rain occurs. But when neither Hermes nor Aphrodite is at the beginning of the year in any of the aforementioned signs, and they are not harmed by the malefics, and then the Moon and Hermes come to where either Aphrodite is, then proportionate rain occurs. What I have therefore tested: note the ascendant sign at the beginning of the year, the setting sign, the sign of the Good Daimon, and the sign of the Evil Daimon, and if you see a destructive planet as the Moon comes to these places, there will be rain; and the remaining two angles, apart from the testimony of the malefics, produce the same effect. Likewise, Aries together with Libra, being testified to by the malefics, are favorable for rain, and so too the sign of the preceding conjunction or full moon, if it is found among the aforementioned signs, produces the same effect.

F. 66r. On the Configurations of the Seven Stars, by Julianus.

The star of Kronos [Saturn] is by nature the dimmest in hue, traversing the first zone, set in an air that is exceedingly cold and sluggish, being close to the sphere of the fixed stars, far removed from the sun, and in motion slower than the others. By nature, it is moist and cold, crystalline, and windy, and it is sympathetic to the poorly tempered signs of the zodiac, and destructive to living creatures and all kinds of crops, due to its excessive cold. When it happens to be in moist signs, it makes the sea turbulent and brings long-lasting rains and chills and winds and upsets, or even earthquakes or fissures. But in the fiery signs, it brings whirlwinds, storms, and darkness—