CODICES FLORENTINI

...the minimum years of Venus are shown, and when the nativity undergoes conflagration, and when the nativity signifies nothing good. — F. 76. On when, with the Moon squaring (?) Mars, the one departing for a journey falls in with robbers at the beginning (or: from the beginning?). — F. 76v. On when Saturn is conjoined with Jupiter: if someone happens to be born and has the zodiac sign where such a conjunction is ascending (or: with such a conjunction at the ascendant?) or at the midheaven, such a one becomes a great king. — On how to know whether someone is truthful or lying who calls himself a prophet. — F. 78. On when, if three high stars come together and the Sun is observing them, they produce a great king. — On the fact that the religion of the prophets of the Saracens was not signified by any mathematical (i.e. astrological) means except from Libra. — On the fact that no one knew when such a religion would end. — F. 78v. On the attainment of apostasy. — On what the long conjunctions of Mars and the Sun and Venus and Mercury and the Moon signify. — F. 79. On the conjunction of Saturn and Mars in Aries. — On the twelve houses. — On rains. — F. 79v. On the fact that the signification of the Zodiac is more potent, etc. — F. 80v. On the fact that Saturn, Jupiter, the Sun, and Mars are significant. — On a certain result deemed paradoxical. — On when the Moon signifies rain and when it signifies cloudiness (sic). — On the fact that if one is asked about life and fortune, and Mars and Saturn are in the ascendant, it will be determined concerning the one about whom the question is asked. — F. 81. On the fact that the conjunction is cold and worthy of investigation. — On when Mars listens to prayers, according to the opinion of the Greeks, etc. — On how, if Mercury be present, the native becomes a speaker, orator, and poet. — On how, if Saturn be present, the native becomes fortunate, etc. — F. 81v. On when one is about to attain kingship, who is about to engage in the science of the astronomers. — On whether someone will travel for his own benefit, etc. — F. 82. On when lasting good fortune and release from troubles is signified. — On the fact that in wells, forces are weakened. — On what kind of person is born, etc. — F. 82v. On the fact that great changes occur when Saturn is in Libra and Jupiter is in Cancer. — On when sea travel is good. — On lawsuits. — On the fact that the Lot of Fortune has no power when it is calculated at the opposition of Mars and the Moon. — F. 83. On which religion first and which second discovered astronomy.

[Continued on next page]