Some say that certain stars aspect it, either in their own places or when the Moon casts a dodecatemorion (twelfth-part division). If the Moon falls beneath the earth, it will be found with difficulty, and even more so if it is in Gemini or Leo or Libra or Pisces. If Zeus observes it, it will be found quickly; but if Kronos or Ares observes, the life of the fugitive will be endangered, or he will lose what he has together with himself. If it occurs at the Ascendant, he will be found upon denunciation; at the Midheaven, he will be found in a conspicuous and much-frequented place; but if beneath the earth, he will only be found with difficulty by an informer. If he begins his journey midway, he will be seized at the beginning of his departure; if he travels west, he will be seized in a humid place; if he travels north, he will be seized with difficulty. If any of the stars is in its own house, or the Moon is in a tropical sign, it indicates he has not escaped. If the fugitive carries away money and Ares beholds the Ascendant or the Moon, he will squander the money in prodigality; but if Aphrodite is with Ares, it has occurred for the sake of licentiousness and desire for women and for the sake of **. If Zeus looks upon the Ascendant, and is aspected by Kronos, whatever he has carried off he will lose, but he himself will be saved.

Let us also propose another such method of prognostication: let us make the Moon represent the fugitive, and the Midheaven the master. If, then, at the outset of the flight the Moon is waning and not far from full, the fugitive will soon return home; and in certain circumstances or by himself ***, in this way the crime will be concealed from the master. But if the Moon is waxing, the fugitive will not escape abroad, and will quickly come into the master's power; if the Sun sets and is afflicted by Kronos or Ares, the master will die sooner and the fugitive will be returned. In the same way, you should observe the Midheaven, and if the malefics happen to be upon it, they will cause greater loss and harm to the master who seeks than any benefit that may be found.

              [A. O.]

6 ἀνεπαρῇ cod., corr. Kroll. 8 τι μέσον suspect. 9 εἰς inserui. 14 ἄσωτον coni. Kroll. Sc. εἰς γυναῖκα ἄσωτον cf. e.g. Aristaen. ep. II, 12 τὴν ἄσωτον ὑπαινίττωμαι [Wünsch]. 16 lacunam sign. 17 αὐτοῦ cod. 23 post ἑαυτὸν lacunam signavi. 24 ὁ inserui. 26 θλίβεται cod.