...the heliacal rising of Sirius. — F. 110. On beginnings of undertakings. — F. 110v. On journeys. — On journeys by sea <etc.>. — F. 111. On marriage. — On anointing. — On hair-cutting. — F. 111v. On nails. — On the cutting and wearing of garments <sic>. — On purgation. — On surgery. — F. 112. On bloodletting. — On the beginning of a building. — On loans. — On theft. — On purchase. — F. 112v. On suspected harm. — On a woman, whether she is a virgin or has already been deflowered (l. deflorated), etc. — On diseases. — F. 113. On relocation, etc. — On letters. — On twins in women. — F. 113v. On the hiding of objects. — On when Mars grants fortune in a nativity. — On accident, etc. — On another method of nativity. — F. 114. On diseases of the eyes. — F. 114v. On the quadrature of the Moon and Sun. — On loans. — On illness. — On the motion of retrograde Venus. — F. 115. On the sick. — On weather forecasts, that is, concerning rain. — F. 115v. On chess and "tablion" (l. "tavli"). — On knowing which part of the body [***]. — F. 116. On malefic fixed stars causing the climacterics. — On business and purchase. — F. 116v. On mnemonics. — On sowing. — F. 117. On planting trees. — On the magnitude of stars. — On the affliction of the two luminaries during an eclipse. — On the affliction of the Moon. — F. 117v. On the exact conjunction of the stars. — F. 118. On what each star signifies, being configured as benefic or malefic in a change of time. — F. 120. On the conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter. — On cosmic indications from the transits of Saturn and Jupiter. — F. 120v. On the significations of knowledge. — F. 121v. On the friendship and enmity of the stars, etc. — F. 122. On the opposition of the signs of Libra and the friendship of the stars. — F. 123. On how the separations from evils (?) are made in the houses of the other stars, those of Jupiter. — F. 123v. On the significations of Venus when she is conjoined with Mars or Saturn, etc. — On the operation of the stars. — F. 124v. On when the malefic stars do not harm. — On what the lord of the tenth place does in the horoscope, being conjoined with the Sun or even the Moon. — F. 125. On the power of the stars. — F. 126. On the houses and exaltations of the stars, in which the same rejoice. — F. 127v. On someone seeking a sword (?). — On the affliction of the stars. — F. 128v. On their great power. — On the innate power of the stars. — F. 129. On ...