...the light is brought low and the day becomes shorter; again, for what reason is it that where Zeus is exalted, there Ares is brought low; and where Ares is exalted, there Zeus is brought low? We say that Zeus is the overseer of the vital spirit and prosperity, whereas Ares is of death. Therefore, where the vital spirit increases, there the quality of death is brought low; but where death increases, there life is brought low. Again, for what cause is it that where Aphrodite is exalted, there Hermes is brought low, and where Hermes is exalted, there Aphrodite is brought low? We say that Hermes is the lord of reason, and Aphrodite the overseer of desire and mixing. Therefore, where the rational principle increases, there the appetitive and pleasurable principle of mixing is brought low; and where the appetitive and pleasurable principle is exalted, there the rational is brought low. For what reason, then, is it that where the Moon is exalted, no one is brought low, and where the Moon is brought low, no one is exalted? We say that the Moon is the fortune of the whole; and whomsoever fortune exalts, no one else can bring low, and whomsoever fortune brings low, no one else can exalt.

8. On the oppositions of the stars.

For what reason do the houses of the Sun and Moon stand opposed to the houses of Saturn? We say that the Sun and the Moon are the luminaries of the cosmos, and Saturn the lord of darkness. Hence, light is always opposed to darkness, and darkness to light. Again, for what reason are the houses of Hermes opposed to the houses of Zeus, and the houses of Zeus to the houses of Hermes? We say that Zeus is the overseer of wealth and prosperity, and Hermes always lord of words; therefore, the rational principle is always opposed to and despises the desires for wealth, and prosperity is opposed to the rational. For what cause, again, are the houses of Ares opposed to the houses of Aphrodite? We say that Aphrodite is the overseer of all desire and pleasure and delight, and Ares of all fear and war and wrath; therefore, what is pleasant and appetitive and delightful is always opposed to what is fearful, wrathful, and warlike. That this is so, and that we must, in truth, always judge the natures of the stars by their mutual configurations.