...and thus also he removes [them], if no benefic observes; but if one observes, he saves those who have suffered affliction.  
The Moon towards Mars, no benefic observing, removes [them] up to the diameter; but if one observes, from the first square she saves. The Moon towards Mars and the Sun, if no benefic is intervening, until the conjunction is dissolved, produces an affliction involving the nerves and madness; but if, after dissolving the conjunction, she applies to a benefic moving toward the lesser [lights], she saves one fallen into the fourth period; but if she applies to a malefic, namely Saturn, she does not save even up to the diameter. But if, having dissolved from the conjunction, she applies to Saturn moving toward the greater [lights], she saves one who is in danger up to the diameter.  
But if, in the aforementioned way, even by chance there is no intermediate [aspect]—that is, until the Moon dissolves from the conjunction and moves toward the lesser [lights]—it is a mode of salvation.  
But if, with the Moon moving toward the lesser [lights] in the same way, Saturn and Mercury are configured, the afflictions become chronic, acting more to lessen rather than to remove [them] completely.  
But if there is addition both to the number [aspects] and to the light, in whatever way, whether by the mind being inclined to stars or the Moon being inclined, they will incline until the Moon arrives at the tenth sign from the inclination; but if the Moon is unobstructed by benefics or malefics, those afflicted with choler in Libra dissolve their diseases there; but if only benefics and Mercury are configured in any manner, they dissolve the afflictions up to the square; but by nature, in this sign, diseases become difficult to treat and malignant.

In Leo: The Moon towards Saturn, no benefic observing, removes [them] up to the diameter; but if one observes, she saves many who have suffered greatly. The Moon towards Mars, no benefic observing, removes [them] up to the ninth; but if one observes, from the trine she saves one who is endangered. The Moon towards Mars and the Sun, with additive aspect either in number or in light, always produces a cardiac crisis up to the fifth; but at the square aspect, unless it ends in number or there is then an increase, Saturn being configured saves.  
The Moon alone and with subtractive aspect in number, saves. The Moon towards Jupiter and Venus, at the inclination or when she comes to the square, saves. The Moon towards Saturn and the Sun, moving towards the greater [lights] or increasing, especially if a benefic is involved, from the square saves; but if she moves from the third of the greater [lights] by ascent, she saves in every way.  
The Moon, moving in the same way and borne to the north, if Saturn and Mercury observe, the affection is benefic and then there is a quartan fever; then, operating in the way of the mind with the aforementioned stars, being bilious, as far as it is difficult to resolve with one observing, either in sight or with increased illumination, she gives strength.