...showy books, more tokens of wandering than of truth. Critodemus, indeed, possessing a multitude of observations, adorned also with other advantages and able to explain clearly through the imagination produced by these instruments, has obscured the science. But I, in the books assigned to me, have undertaken neither the labors of empty nor of vain fictions, etc.  
                                [W. K.]

3 adorned also with other advantages 5 neither the labors of empty nor of vain fictions

From the apotelesmatic book of Palchus (written at the end of the 5th century A.D.).

Chapter 135: We, therefore, having followed the teaching of the most divine Ptolemy, have ventured to write concerning the efficacy and quality of the thirty bright stars; and, in order to recall also those who wrote before him concerning the <phases> of the fixed stars and concerning the power of those rising together, we set forth the following.

The Babylonians and Chaldaeans, in fact, were almost the first to discover the knowledge of the phenomena, as we have learned from our predecessors. For these also give accounts of Apollonius of Myndus and Artemidorus; and Berossus and Ephesius also wrote about these matters. And among our own people, the earliest of the Egyptians were mentioned and composed works about these matters; among whom the first was Hermes, who wrote in his treatise on cosmic effects concerning the rising of Sirius, and Necheo, Kerasophorus, Petosiris, Nechemo, and certain others from various regions wrote about these matters, and especially Timaeus and Ascleation. And from these writers, their successors, having benefited, recorded in various places and by many the risings and settings and other observations they made in each region, and the productive potency of their efficacy was recorded almost day by day—Meton and Apollinarius and Euctemon at Athens, and Dositheus in Ionia, and Callippus in the Hellespont, and Philip in the Peloponnese and Phocis and Locris, and Hipparchus in Bithynia. And from each of the aforementioned men there circulate treatises concerning the [phases] of the fixed stars....

And Antiochus also, and Balas, and Antigonus, and Heraiscus, and certain others wrote many and various things concerning their power, as is found in their writings; and also Serapion and after...