<cause>. The Moon, when unaspected to Jupiter, makes people unsuccessful, lowly, and inferior in their lives; the Moon, when unaspected to Mars, makes people moderate, timid, obscure, and estranged from their parents; the Moon, when unaspected to Venus, makes people disagreeable and difficult to succeed in marriage and sexual matters; the Moon, when unaspected to Hermes [Mercury], makes people more ineffectual and rather unintelligent. And all these configurations, I say, pertain to those sharing the same equinoctial circle, as well as to the isanafora and isodunamos signs of the zodiac.

53. Results of the solar attendants.

When Kronos [Saturn] is found in attendance, he produces moderation, arrogance, good fortune inherited from the father, and the ownership of much property. Zeus [Jupiter] produces justice, affability, arrogance, splendor, leadership, wealth, and success. Ares [Mars] produces courage, warmth, boldness, recklessness, violence, insolence, and the result of being hated among those who become excessively impassioned. Aphrodite [Venus] produces glory, attractiveness, being well regarded, pleasantness, shamelessness, suitability for marriage, and success. Hermes [Mercury] produces intelligence, reason, and good estimation. But it should be known that, if the attendants deviate from the central lights, those so born nonetheless attain both kingship and tyranny; but if the lights have attendants but are themselves deviated, they will not become kings or tyrants, but rather will be friends of such persons. The same reasoning applies as well to those who are attendants by participation.

[F. B.]

2 ποιοῦσιν L.  3 πρὸς γονεῖς L.  5 ἑρμῆ L.   8 Chapter 53 is mutilated in codex r (entitled: "On the results of attendants to the Sun"): nearly all its readings I have disregarded.  10 After πολύκτητον, r gives: πλὴν ἐπὶ κινδύνους ("except with regard to dangers").  11 πολυχρήματον r] πολλῶν χρημάτων L.  17 τετυχηκότες r.  18 τοὺς οὕτως γεννωμένους: Kroll notes that the dative is required. τοὺς οὕτως r] τοσοῦτο L. γεννωμένους L.  19 These are written in the margin by hand l in cod. L: "By day: if the lights are central or the stars are eccentric, reputation is not hindered; but if the lights are eccentric, reputation is hindered."

F. 93v. On the various appellations applied in accordance with the native qualities and formations to the segments of the zodiac.

Considering the distinctive nomenclature transmitted by the authorities concerning the formations of the zodiac as useful, we have judged it appropriate to append these designations for those introduced here in this edition, so that from all one can appropriately calculate the natural considerations; and these, when summarized, are said to be thirty-two in number. That is, there are some that are "commanding", others "sub-commanding", others "subordinate", others "terrestrial", others "aquatic", others...

Astrological signs, since we have preserved them in the edition, should be understood as nominative case. 2 τμήματος cod., emended Boll. 5 ὀνομασίαν cod. 6 ἐκδύσει cod.