Hermes; feminine are the Moon and Aphrodite. Now, these stars are at times masculinized, at times feminized. And the stars are masculinized if they should chance to be morning (eastern) relative to the Sun, that is, having occurred in the zodiacal signs leading the Sun by up to 15 degrees; they are feminized if, when they are evening (western) relative to the Sun, they happen to have occurred trailing the Sun by up to 15 degrees. Again, the stars are masculinized when they have occurred in masculine signs and are moving northward; but they are feminized in feminine signs and when moving southward. Again, the stars are masculinized when they have occurred in masculine quadrants—namely, from the Midheaven to the Ascendant and from the IC (Nadir) to the Descendant; they are feminized in the feminine quadrants, that is, from the Ascendant to the IC (Nadir) or from the Descendant to the Midheaven.

The stars that are being masculinized, when in the masculinized signs or masculinized quadrants, contribute to masculine nativities; for they produce those who are self-willed, bold, possessing courage in themselves; as for women, they make them unchaste, shameless, bold, disobedient, and masculine in sexual relations, that is, tribades.^1 But the stars, when being feminized by their phases and by the signs and by the quadrants, make men soft, timid, lacking in courage, entirely passive, feminized, and in general impotent or performing women’s tasks; as for women, they make them downcast, modest, orderly, grave, submissive to men, and given to feminine conventions.

Thus much we have said regarding stars that are orientally or occidentally eastern; for the western and cadent stars are inactive, weaker, and more irregular in practical matters, excepting the “cardinal” stars.^2 Cardinal stars are called those who are in conjunction equally with the Sun, either exactly or nearly so in degrees. Of this phase none of the ancients made mention; but we, having had the experience, have classified it, since even Ptolemy called it a phase of conjunction but did not state its effect.

---
^1 Tribades (cf. ancient literature): women engaging in tribadism, that is, same-sex relations, often in a masculine role.  
^2 Cardinal (ἐγκαρδίων) stars: those in close conjunction (“at the heart”) with the Sun.