27. From the compilations of Hephaestion of Thebes^1 and other ancient authors: concerning the naming and power of the twelve parts. — Chapters 27–67 (f. 75v) agree almost entirely with the chapters which, beginning from “From the compilations of Hephaestion of Thebes, etc.,” are preserved on folios 99–131v of codex 7, except that on f. 46v, “On the nature of the signs of the zodiac” (Heph. Theb. I, chapter 20), it ends: “The star of Kronos alone was previously assigned supremacy,” p. 79, 7 (Engelbrecht); on f. 67v, “On the divisions of time,” it appears divided into the following sections: concerning the year; concerning the month; concerning the day. — Chapters “How one must consider transits, etc.” (f. 140) up to “Concerning the month according to Nechepsos” (f. 148) of codex 7 are omitted. Chapters 67–87 (f. 77r–88v), which are in no way to be ascribed to Hephaestion (in chapters 69 and 87 Julian and an author named Syrus are mentioned), likewise correspond with those in codex 7, ff. 149–158v. F. 88v, 88. “How one could discover the inquiries of those wishing to investigate through inception.” Hephaestion — cod. 7, f. 159. — Chapters 89–91 — cod. 7, ff. 161v–162. Chapters 92–102 (f. 88v–100v) are again borrowed from Hephaestion, and are likewise found in 7, ff. 162v–170r. But the fifth chapter of Book III, entire (92–95v) but divided into two parts: first “On universal elections” from the beginning up to the words “except full moon and conjunction” — Studi ital. l.c., p. 22, l. 22 — second “On practical days and hours.” Begins “and the hours, too, are practical,” ibid., to the end of the chapter. — See the fuller index in Studi, l.c. Chapters 103–108 (f. 100v–102r), which seem alien to the books of Hephaestion (for subjects already explained are repeated), correspond with cod. 7, f. 170v–171v. F. 102r, 109. “When it is necessary for a ruler or potentate to meet.” Hephaestion — Of the chapters 130–135 (ff. 102r–114r), of which I would believe only a few not to belong to Hephaestion, in Studi ital. l.c. you will find titles and the first and last words. Since these differ from codex 7, ff. 171v–182v [on fugitives] only in the smallest details, we have deemed them to be passed over. Chapters 135–143 (f. 114r–170) in the same way almost word for word repeat folios 182v–247 of codex 7. Accordingly, we have thought it sufficient to briefly note only where one differs from the other: instead of the chapter [of Antiochus] “On the domination of each over the other,” cod. 7, f. 195, we have

^1 We have given a complete index of the excerpts from Hephaestion preserved in this codex in Studi italiani di Filologia classica, vol. VI, p. 2 ff., which it has seemed superfluous to repeat here.