APPENDIX

48. Their respective outcomes.

The Sun, overseeing the Lot of Daimon, causes childlessness. The Sun, obtaining the Lot of Disease, causes cardiac disease. If Zeus observes the Lot of Daimon, he causes such a one to be directed by the gods and by dreams, and to have all things divine favorable, whether he is in square or in opposition. The ruler of the Lot of Fortune, being under the rays, causes those who die by violence according to the nature of the sign in which the Lot of Fortune is; but if he escapes a little from the rays of the Sun, they are not violently killed, but wander and are subjected to many lawsuits. But if benefic planets observe, he is no longer slain by violence, but has a middle fortune. The ruler of Fortune and of Daimon, being under the rays, makes those who die by violence according to the nature of the sign; he is not good, nor altogether bad, but always fair as one at the center. If the Lot of Children falls into the house of Kronos and malefics oversee the lot, he destroys the firstborn; but if the Lot of Children falls into houses of Ares and malefics oversee the lot, he destroys those born in the middle; but if the Lot of Children falls into houses of Hermes and malefics observe, he destroys those born later. If the Lot of Daimon falls in Capricorn, he makes the one born to be not resentful and easily changed; but if it falls in Aries or Leo or Scorpio, he makes him irascible and obstinate. When the Sun oversees the Lot of Fortune and its lord is under the rays, he causes ruin. If the ruler of the Lot of the Father is found opposing his own house, where the Lot of the Father has fallen, he declares such a one a foundling. The ruler of the Lot of Fortune, being of bad fortune and overseeing the lot, denotes a bad condition, especially if he is also under the rays or observed by malefics. If, at the Lot of Marriage, the Moon happens to be present and is diametrically or quadrangularly aspecting the Lot of Marriage, she gives consanguineous marriage or marriage with a sibling. If the ruler of the Lot of Marriage is found at setting, he says marriages will come about in secret. If Kronos is found ruler of the Lot of Marriage, and Kronos is at the western place, such a one will be destroyed through Hermes; but if the house of Kronos is also found at setting, the one who has done this is of paternal or maternal descent, or also an uncle, and such a one will not be a stranger. If the ruler of the Lot of Marriage is at setting, the man is of lesser status and ...